# fakenewsdetection

Fake news detection has recently captured the public and researchers’ attention as the online circulation of misinformation has drastically increased
with the advent of the online media channels such as social media (Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp), articles, blogs, and e-newspapers.
A recent study found out that 50% of the traffic to all the fake news sites are routed back to social media platform.
Majority (62%) of the U.S. adults use online media channels for news information and sharing, and hence identification of fake news content 
across all the online sources has become a pressing need. There are thousands of cases where proliferation of fake news impacted the society 
on economic, political, social, emotional facets, and holds huge potential for extreme negative impacts. A fake news that a bomb exploded 
in the white house and injured Barack Obama caused a dip in share prices in the country. Similar impacts were observed in the elections of 2016
when a fake news about Pope Francis endorsing Donald Trump got widely circulated which might have had an impact on the election results.

The biggest challenge in identification of these fake news are: First, fake news is written with an intention to mislead readers, which makes it difficult? 
to simply detect based on its content. Second, amount of social media data is humongous, multimodal, mostly generated by the users, sometimes anonymous and noisy. 
Third, social media consumers come from different backgrounds, have disparate preferences or needs, and use social media for varied purposes. Finally, cost of 
content creation on social media accounts is negligible. Hence, it becomes an easy target to create malicious accounts, such as social bots and cyborg users for 
proliferation of the fake news to quickly reach out to larger audiences.

In this project, we have implemented several Natural Language Processing (NLP) models for detection of fake news content. 
Data cup fake news detection challenge dataset was used to train and test our models. We performed several exploratory analyses to understand and identify 
the linguistic properties that are predominantly present in fake content, and we built fake news detectors relying on those linguistic features. 
We have implemented several fake news detection models to understand each’s performance and compare the accuracy between each one of them. 
